Adding extra polish in this video will cover adding programmatic animation for the collected coins.
We'll add sounds through the sound manager and we'll discuss level design.
So what is Polish?
Polish?
Are the small details at the end of a project which take a good project and make it great?
Often they're visual and audio and animation and small gameplay tweaks to.
The tax break breakdown here will be to add animation to our spinning coins.
So when we collect them, they fade in instead of instantly disappearing.
We'll add sounds to key events through the sound manager and we'll discuss level design.
For the project, we'll open up section six Video five Crazy Ball five OC.
Here we are inside Unity and we'll open up Crazy Ball five.
Now here, we've added some polish, we've added some sounds, we've added some animation.
And I also want to talk a bit about level design.
So let's start with the effect that we've added for when we collect coins.
Now, before, when we collected a coin, it would instantly disappear.
And here what I've done is I have it scale from its full size down to zero.
Very quickly.
But I think the effect is nice.
Watch.
When I collect this coin, it shrinks down.
It's subtle, but it's a really nice level of polish that just gives you a little bit of extra feeling
that there's some care in the game and it's a nice effect.
So let's see how we accomplish that.
We'll take a look at some code.
Here in the coin, we can see that in the destroy that we had set up before the destroy me public method
I flag the is a live false and then I used to immediately do a destroy.
Now in number one here we can see that we're using the do scale operation and it's going to scale down
to zero Over the course of about a fourth of a second, I'm able to set an easing to have it kind of
bounce or do it quickly or accelerate as it goes.
You've got lots of options there.
And then I set the on complete method.
What that does is waits till the end of the animation and then destroys the object.
So instead of instantly destroying the object, it does this nice animation and about a quarter of a
second later it will be destroyed.
We can see the settings here.
I've got shrinks down to about zero and it does it over a quarter of a second, but you could tweak
that.
Now let's talk about the sound design inside the scene.
I've set up a sound manager.
Let's take a look at that.
So in the environment, we've got the sound manager here and it has all the sounds we want lined up
in there, dragged in from our project.
These are WAV files or M.P. threes that we can use to make some sounds.
Then I can call by index and say play zero for the coin, play one for the collision, etc..
Let's look at the code again.
So what I do here inside the on trigger enter is after I know that I've got the coin and I start the
shrinking operation with a destroy me call, I then play the sound I use sound manager instance play
audio clip and I pass in the index of what I want to play.
Those are all stored here.
So now within the constants, I know exactly which sound I'm about to play.
There's lots of ways to organize your sound in a project, but that way works.
Well, now let's talk about the game design.
So if we zoom out a little bit and look at the world from a top.
This is how I originally designed the game.
I thought from the beginning here in the game view, I want to be able to see the finish line.
So between the time UI, the score UI and visually connecting with the end goal, the user is led on
a clear path where they should go.
Then as they play the game, they would.
Move across here, perhaps trying to get all the coins they could round the corner, come up, they
would see as they collect the coins that the score goes up so they get the connection.
That points is a good thing in games typically, and they see that that increments when they collect
coins.
So that works really well.
I've created a very simple maze pattern here.
Also allowing user who's interested in the best possible time to just be able to come right over this
little hill and come around the corner and get the quickest score.
They would also see that they win, but they don't get the highest score.
So I'd imagine a player would look at it this way.
They'd play the game, probably fool around and lose the first time by hitting the time of zero.
Then they'd play again, realizing maybe coins are good, but the finish line is the point.
Get to the finish line with a few points.
Then on a third play they might try to get all of the coins possible within the time limit.
In this demo game.
I've made that pretty simple to do, but you can imagine playing with the user and imagining the different
ways that they'd approach the game to encourage them to play again and again and again.
So it's just a little bit of a note on the gameplay design and also that adds to the good feeling of
Polish at the end of game.
That's it.
Thanks very much.
As a bonus assignment, you can add your own polish.
Here's some ideas.
More programmatic twinning sounds, obstacles, even larger levels or multiple levels and different
types of crazy balls.
In the next section, we'll handle advanced topics.